# Shadow DOM v0 vs. v1
The original version of the Shadow DOM specification was implemented in Chrome 25 and was known as Shadow DOM v0 at the time. The updated version of the specification improves many aspects of the Shadow DOM API.

For example, an element can no longer host more than one shadow DOM, and some elements cannot host a shadow DOM at all. Violating these rules causes an error.

Additionally, Shadow DOM v1 provides a set of new features, such as open shadow mode, fallback contents, and more. You can find a comprehensive side-by-side comparison of v0 and v1 here, written by one of the specification authors. A full description of Shadow DOM v1 can be found at W3C.


# Browser support for Shadow DOM v1
At the time of this writing, Firefox and Chrome fully support Shadow DOM v1. Unfortunately, Edge has not implemented v1 yet, and Safari partially supports it. An up-to-date list of supported browsers is available on Can I use... .

To implement shadow DOM on browsers that do not support Shadow DOM v1, you can use the shadydom and shadycss polyfills.

# Wrapping up
The lack of encapsulation in DOM has long been problematic for web developers. The Shadow DOM API offers an elegant solution to this problem by giving us the ability to create scoped DOM.

Now, style collisions are no longer a source of concern, and selectors do not grow out of control. The shadow DOM is a game changer for widget developers. It’s a huge plus to be able to create widgets that are encapsulated from the rest of the page and not affected by the presence of other stylesheets and scripts.

As mentioned earlier, Web Components consists of three main technologies, and shadow DOM is a key part of it. Hopefully, after reading this post, you will have an easier time understanding how all three technologies work together to build Web Components.

Do you have some tips to share? Let us know in the comments!
